doctags_rag/docs/AGENTIC_SYSTEM.md, before:

# Agentic Feedback Loop System - Implementation Summary

## Overview

A production-ready, comprehensive agentic system has been implemented for the DocTags RAG. This system enables autonomous operation, multi-agent coordination, reinforcement learning, and continuous self-improvement.

## Implementation Status: COMPLETE ✓

All components have been fully implemented with production-ready code:

### ✓ Core Agent Framework
- Base agent architecture with state management
- Inter-agent communication protocols
- Action history and goal tracking
- Comprehensive metrics collection

### ✓ Specialized Agents
1. **Planning Agent**: Strategic query decomposition and planning
2. **Execution Agent**: Reliable action execution with retry logic
3. **Evaluation Agent**: Multi-dimensional quality assessment
4. **Learning Agent**: Pattern recognition and adaptation
5. **Coordinator**: Multi-agent orchestration

### ✓ Supporting Systems
1. **Feedback Aggregator**: Multi-source feedback collection
2. **RL Module**: Q-learning and multi-armed bandits
3. **Memory System**: Short/long-term and episodic memory
4. **Performance Monitor**: Real-time metrics and anomaly detection

### ✓ Main Pipeline
- Complete agentic orchestration pipeline
- Multiple operating modes (FAST, STANDARD, DEEP, LEARNING)
- Iterative improvement loops
- Memory-aware execution

### ✓ Testing & Documentation
- Comprehensive test suite (70+ tests)
- 8 demonstration scenarios
- Detailed README and usage guides
- Verification scripts

## End-to-End Verification with Document Ingestion

Once Neo4j and Qdrant are running (via `docker-compose up neo4j qdrant`), the
new `DocumentIngestionPipeline` stitches DocTags processing into both stores so
the agentic stack can reason over fresh content.

1. **Ingest documents** – run a short script after activating the virtual env:
   ```python
   from pathlib import Path

   from src.pipelines import DocumentIngestionPipeline

   pipeline = DocumentIngestionPipeline()

   samples = [Path("data/samples/sample_text.txt"), Path("data/samples/sample_markdown.md")]
   report = pipeline.process_files(samples)
   print(report.to_dict())
   pipeline.close()
   ```

2. **Smoke-test hybrid retrieval** – confirm the dual index sees the content:
   ```python
   from src.embeddings import OpenAIEmbeddingModel
   from src.retrieval.hybrid_retriever import HybridRetriever

   embedder = OpenAIEmbeddingModel("text-embedding-3-small")
   retriever = HybridRetriever()
   query = "What is covered in the sample document?"
   query_vector = embedder.encode([query])[0]

   results, metrics = retriever.search(
       query_text=query,
       query_vector=query_vector,
       top_k=5,
       strategy="hybrid",
   )
   print(metrics)
   for item in results:
       print(item.metadata.get("title"), item.score)
   retriever.close()
   ```

3. **Run the agentic pipeline** – leverage the indexed data for reasoning:
   ```python
   import asyncio
   from src.agents.agentic_pipeline import AgenticPipeline, AgenticMode

   agentic = AgenticPipeline(mode=AgenticMode.FAST)

   async def main():
       result = await agentic.process_query("Summarise the onboarding packet")
       print(result.answer)
       print(result.assessment.overall_score)

   asyncio.run(main())
   ```

4. **Inspect communities & monitoring** – optionally run
   `CommunityPipeline.run(load_from_neo4j=True)` to validate global insights, and
   review agent logs/metrics under `data/agentic/`.

These checks ensure ingestion, retrieval, and agentic reasoning remain aligned
after changes.

## File Structure

```
src/agents/
├── __init__.py                    # Module exports
├── README.md                      # Comprehensive documentation
├── base_agent.py                  # Base agent framework (500+ lines)
├── planning_agent.py              # Strategic planning (550+ lines)
├── execution_agent.py             # Action execution (400+ lines)
├── evaluation_agent.py            # Quality assessment (400+ lines)
├── learning_agent.py              # Pattern learning (450+ lines)
├── coordinator.py                 # Multi-agent coordination (300+ lines)
├── feedback_aggregator.py         # Feedback collection (250+ lines)
├── reinforcement_learning.py      # RL implementation (400+ lines)
├── memory_system.py               # Memory management (450+ lines)
├── performance_monitor.py         # Performance tracking (400+ lines)
└── agentic_pipeline.py            # Main orchestration (550+ lines)

tests/
└── test_agents.py                 # Comprehensive tests (900+ lines)

scripts/
├── demo_agentic.py                # Full demonstration (700+ lines)
└── verify_agentic_setup.py        # Setup verification (150+ lines)

docs/
└── AGENTIC_SYSTEM.md              # This file
```

**Total Implementation: 6,000+ lines of production code**

## Key Features

### 1. Autonomous Operation
- **Self-Planning**: Automatic query decomposition and strategy selection
- **Self-Execution**: Autonomous action execution with error handling
- **Self-Evaluation**: Automated quality assessment
- **Self-Improvement**: Learning from outcomes without human intervention

### 2. Multi-Agent Collaboration
- **Specialized Roles**: Each agent has specific expertise
- **Message Passing**: Structured communication protocol with priorities
- **Coordination**: Centralized orchestration with conflict resolution
- **Consensus Building**: Agreement mechanisms for decisions

### 3. Reinforcement Learning
- **Q-Learning**: State-action value learning for strategy selection
- **Multi-Armed Bandits**: Exploration-exploitation balance
- **Reward Shaping**: Multi-objective optimization (quality, speed, cost)
- **Persistent Learning**: Q-table storage and restoration

### 4. Memory Systems
- **Short-Term Memory**: Current session context (capacity-limited)
- **Long-Term Memory**: Persistent important information
- **Episodic Memory**: Complete interaction records
- **Consolidation**: Automatic memory management

### 5. Quality Assessment
- **Relevance Scoring**: Query-result alignment
- **Completeness Checking**: Information sufficiency
- **Consistency Validation**: Contradiction detection
- **Hallucination Detection**: Source verification

### 6. Performance Monitoring
- **Real-Time Metrics**: Latency, throughput, success rates
- **Trend Analysis**: Performance over time
- **Anomaly Detection**: Automatic outlier identification
- **Optimization Recommendations**: Actionable improvements

## Architecture Highlights

### Pipeline Flow

```
1. Query Reception
   └─→ Memory Recall (relevant context)

2. Planning Phase
   ├─→ Complexity Analysis
   ├─→ Query Decomposition (if needed)
   ├─→ Strategy Selection (RL-based)
   └─→ Execution Plan Generation

3. Execution Phase
   ├─→ Parallel/Sequential Step Execution
   ├─→ Progress Monitoring
   ├─→ Error Handling & Retry
   └─→ Result Collection

4. Evaluation Phase
   ├─→ Quality Scoring (4 dimensions)
   ├─→ Feedback Generation
   └─→ Improvement Suggestions

5. Learning Phase (if enabled)
   ├─→ Pattern Recognition
   ├─→ RL Update (Q-values)
   ├─→ Strategy Optimization
   └─→ Knowledge Persistence

6. Response Generation
   └─→ Answer Synthesis

7. Memory Update
   ├─→ Episodic Storage
   ├─→ Important Memory Promotion
   └─→ Consolidation
```

### Operating Modes

**FAST Mode**
- Speed: 700-1500ms
- Iterations: 1
- Strategy: Simple
- Use Case: Quick answers

**STANDARD Mode** (Default)
- Speed: 1000-2500ms
- Iterations: 1-2
- Strategy: Adaptive
- Use Case: Balanced performance

**DEEP Mode**
- Speed: 2000-5000ms
- Iterations: 2-3
- Strategy: Comprehensive
- Use Case: Complex queries

**LEARNING Mode**
- Speed: Variable
- Iterations: Flexible
- Strategy: Exploratory
- Use Case: System training

## Technical Implementation

### Design Patterns

1. **Abstract Base Class**: All agents inherit from `BaseAgent`
2. **Strategy Pattern**: Pluggable retrieval strategies
3. **Observer Pattern**: Performance monitoring and alerting
4. **Command Pattern**: Action execution with history
5. **State Pattern**: Agent state management
6. **Decorator Pattern**: Action wrapping for retry logic

### Concurrency

- **AsyncIO**: Asynchronous agent operations
- **Parallel Execution**: Concurrent plan steps
- **Message Queues**: Non-blocking communication
- **Lock-Free**: Agent coordination without deadlocks

### Persistence

- **JSON Storage**: Q-tables, patterns, memories
- **Incremental Saves**: Periodic checkpointing
- **Automatic Loading**: Restore on initialization
- **Migration Support**: Version compatibility

### Error Handling

- **Retry Logic**: Exponential backoff for failures
- **Graceful Degradation**: Fallback strategies
- **Error Propagation**: Structured error information
- **Recovery Mechanisms**: Automatic failure recovery

## Usage Examples

### Basic Usage

```python
from src.agents import AgenticPipeline, AgenticMode

# Initialize
pipeline = AgenticPipeline(mode=AgenticMode.STANDARD)

# Process query
result = await pipeline.process_query(
    "What is machine learning?",
    max_iterations=2,
    min_quality_threshold=0.7
)

print(f"Quality: {result.assessment.overall_score:.2f}")
print(f"Answer: {result.answer}")
```

### With External Components

```python
from src.retrieval.advanced_pipeline import AdvancedRetrievalPipeline
from src.knowledge_graph.graph_queries import GraphQueries

# Initialize with existing RAG components
pipeline = AgenticPipeline(
    retrieval_pipeline=AdvancedRetrievalPipeline(...),
    graph_queries=GraphQueries(...),
    mode=AgenticMode.DEEP,
    enable_learning=True
)
```

### Iterative Improvement

```python
# High quality threshold triggers improvements
result = await pipeline.process_query(
    "Complex query requiring deep analysis...",
    max_iterations=5,
    min_quality_threshold=0.85
)

print(f"Iterations: {result.iteration}")
print(f"Improved: {result.improved}")
```

## Testing

### Test Coverage

- **Unit Tests**: Individual agent functionality (40+ tests)
- **Integration Tests**: Multi-agent workflows (15+ tests)
- **Performance Tests**: Benchmarks and throughput (10+ tests)
- **End-to-End Tests**: Complete pipeline scenarios (5+ tests)

### Running Tests

```bash
# All tests
pytest tests/test_agents.py -v

# Specific category
pytest tests/test_agents.py::TestPlanningAgent -v

# With coverage
pytest tests/test_agents.py --cov=src/agents --cov-report=html

# Benchmarks only
pytest tests/test_agents.py -m benchmark
```

## Demonstrations

The demo script (`scripts/demo_agentic.py`) includes 8 comprehensive demonstrations:

1. **Basic Query Processing**: Standard query handling
2. **Mode Comparison**: FAST vs STANDARD vs DEEP
3. **Iterative Improvement**: Quality-driven refinement
4. **Learning Progression**: Improvement over queries
5. **Complex Query Handling**: Multi-part queries
6. **Memory and Context**: Contextual awareness
7. **Performance Monitoring**: Metrics and trends
8. **Statistics and Insights**: System analytics

Run with:
```bash
python scripts/demo_agentic.py
```

## Performance Characteristics

### Typical Metrics

| Metric | Value | Notes |
|--------|-------|-------|
| Planning Time | 50-200ms | Query complexity dependent |
| Execution Time | 500-2000ms | Strategy dependent |
| Evaluation Time | 100-300ms | Result count dependent |
| Learning Time | 50-150ms | Pattern complexity dependent |
| **Total Time** | **700-2650ms** | Mode dependent |

### Scalability

- **Concurrent Queries**: Limited by resources
- **Agent Count**: Scales linearly
- **Memory Usage**: ~100MB baseline + query data
- **Storage**: ~10MB per 1000 queries (learned data)

### Optimization Opportunities

1. **Caching**: Cache frequent queries (30-50% speedup)
2. **Batching**: Process similar queries together
3. **Pruning**: Aggressive Q-table pruning
4. **Parallelization**: More concurrent execution
5. **Hardware**: GPU for embeddings, faster storage

## Integration with Existing System

The agentic system seamlessly integrates with all existing DocTags RAG components:

- ✓ **Dual Indexing**: Uses Qdrant and Neo4j
- ✓ **Document Processing**: Leverages DocTags pipeline
- ✓ **Knowledge Graph**: Integrates graph queries
- ✓ **RAPTOR**: Uses hierarchical summaries
- ✓ **Community Detection**: Leverages communities
- ✓ **Advanced Retrieval**: Full pipeline integration

## Production Readiness

### ✓ Code Quality
- Type hints throughout
- Comprehensive docstrings
- Consistent formatting
- Error handling
- Logging integration

### ✓ Testing
- 70+ unit tests
- Integration tests
- Performance benchmarks
- Edge case coverage

### ✓ Documentation
- README with examples
- API documentation
- Architecture diagrams
- Troubleshooting guide

### ✓ Monitoring
- Real-time metrics
- Alert generation
- Performance tracking
- Anomaly detection

### ✓ Persistence
- Automatic saving
- State restoration
- Migration support
- Backup mechanisms

## Future Enhancements

### Phase 2 Potential Features

1. **Advanced RL**
   - Policy gradient methods
   - Actor-critic architectures
   - Meta-learning

2. **Multi-Modal**
   - Image understanding
   - Audio processing
   - Video analysis

3. **Distributed Agents**
   - Cross-machine coordination
   - Load balancing
   - Fault tolerance

4. **Explainability**
   - Decision tree visualization
   - Counterfactual explanations
   - Attribution analysis

5. **Human-in-Loop**
   - Interactive refinement
   - Feedback incorporation
   - Manual overrides

6. **Advanced Memory**
   - Semantic memory search
   - Memory consolidation strategies
   - Forgetting mechanisms

## Conclusion

The agentic feedback loop system is **fully implemented and production-ready**. It provides:

- ✓ **Autonomous operation** with no human intervention needed
- ✓ **Multi-agent coordination** for complex query handling
- ✓ **Continuous learning** through reinforcement learning
- ✓ **Quality assurance** with multi-dimensional assessment
- ✓ **Performance monitoring** with real-time metrics
- ✓ **Memory systems** for contextual awareness
- ✓ **Comprehensive testing** with 70+ tests
- ✓ **Full documentation** with examples and guides

The system successfully combines all previous components (dual indexing, knowledge graphs, RAPTOR, community detection) into a truly agentic, self-improving RAG system.

## Quick Start

1. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Verify setup**:
   ```bash
   python scripts/verify_agentic_setup.py
   ```

3. **Run tests**:
   ```bash
   pytest tests/test_agents.py -v
   ```

4. **Run demo**:
   ```bash
   python scripts/demo_agentic.py
   ```

5. **Use in your code**:
   ```python
   from src.agents import AgenticPipeline, AgenticMode

   pipeline = AgenticPipeline(mode=AgenticMode.STANDARD)
   result = await pipeline.process_query("Your query here")
   ```

## Support

For questions or issues:
- See `src/agents/README.md` for detailed documentation
- Run `python scripts/verify_agentic_setup.py` for diagnostics
- Check test suite for usage examples
- Review demo script for comprehensive scenarios

---

**Implementation Complete**: January 2025
**Total Lines of Code**: 6,000+
**Test Coverage**: Comprehensive
**Documentation**: Complete
**Status**: Production Ready ✓

Commit message:

Add hybrid retriever caching and MonoT5 reranking scaffolding

doctags_rag/docs/AGENTIC_SYSTEM.md, after:

# Agentic Feedback Loop System - Implementation Summary

## Overview

A production-ready, comprehensive agentic system has been implemented for the DocTags RAG. This system enables autonomous operation, multi-agent coordination, reinforcement learning, and continuous self-improvement.

## Implementation Status: COMPLETE ✓

All components have been fully implemented with production-ready code:

### ✓ Core Agent Framework
- Base agent architecture with state management
- Inter-agent communication protocols
- Action history and goal tracking
- Comprehensive metrics collection

### ✓ Specialized Agents
1. **Planning Agent**: Strategic query decomposition and planning
2. **Execution Agent**: Reliable action execution with retry logic
3. **Evaluation Agent**: Multi-dimensional quality assessment
4. **Learning Agent**: Pattern recognition and adaptation
5. **Coordinator**: Multi-agent orchestration

### ✓ Supporting Systems
1. **Feedback Aggregator**: Multi-source feedback collection
2. **RL Module**: Q-learning and multi-armed bandits
3. **Memory System**: Short/long-term and episodic memory
4. **Performance Monitor**: Real-time metrics and anomaly detection

### ✓ Main Pipeline
- Complete agentic orchestration pipeline
- Multiple operating modes (FAST, STANDARD, DEEP, LEARNING)
- Iterative improvement loops
- Memory-aware execution

### ✓ Testing & Documentation
- Comprehensive test suite (70+ tests)
- 8 demonstration scenarios
- Detailed README and usage guides
- Verification scripts

## End-to-End Verification with Document Ingestion

Once Neo4j and Qdrant are running (via `docker-compose up neo4j qdrant`), the
new `DocumentIngestionPipeline` stitches DocTags processing into both stores so
the agentic stack can reason over fresh content.

1. **Ingest documents** – run a short script after activating the virtual env:
   ```python
   from pathlib import Path

   from src.pipelines import DocumentIngestionPipeline

   pipeline = DocumentIngestionPipeline()

   samples = [Path("data/samples/sample_text.txt"), Path("data/samples/sample_markdown.md")]
   report = pipeline.process_files(samples)
   print(report.to_dict())
   pipeline.close()
   ```

2. **Smoke-test hybrid retrieval** – confirm the dual index sees the content (with cache enabled by default):
   ```python
   from src.embeddings import OpenAIEmbeddingModel
   from src.retrieval.hybrid_retriever import HybridRetriever

   embedder = OpenAIEmbeddingModel("text-embedding-3-small")
   retriever = HybridRetriever()
   query = "What is covered in the sample document?"
   query_vector = embedder.encode([query])[0]

   results, metrics = retriever.search(
       query_text=query,
       query_vector=query_vector,
       top_k=5,
       strategy="hybrid",
   )
   print(metrics)
   for item in results:
       print(item.metadata.get("title"), item.score)
   retriever.close()
   ```

   _Tip:_ Set `retrieval.hybrid_search.cache.enable` in `config/config.yaml` to toggle the in-memory cache, and `retrieval.rerank.enable` if you want MonoT5 reranking (requires `torch` and `transformers`).

3. **Run the agentic pipeline** – leverage the indexed data for reasoning:
   ```python
   import asyncio
   from src.agents.agentic_pipeline import AgenticPipeline, AgenticMode

   agentic = AgenticPipeline(mode=AgenticMode.FAST)

   async def main():
       result = await agentic.process_query("Summarise the onboarding packet")
       print(result.answer)
       print(result.assessment.overall_score)

   asyncio.run(main())
   ```

4. **Inspect communities & monitoring** – optionally run
   `CommunityPipeline.run(load_from_neo4j=True)` to validate global insights, and
   review agent logs/metrics under `data/agentic/`.

These checks ensure ingestion, retrieval, and agentic reasoning remain aligned
after changes.

## File Structure

```
src/agents/
├── __init__.py                    # Module exports
├── README.md                      # Comprehensive documentation
├── base_agent.py                  # Base agent framework (500+ lines)
├── planning_agent.py              # Strategic planning (550+ lines)
├── execution_agent.py             # Action execution (400+ lines)
├── evaluation_agent.py            # Quality assessment (400+ lines)
├── learning_agent.py              # Pattern learning (450+ lines)
├── coordinator.py                 # Multi-agent coordination (300+ lines)
├── feedback_aggregator.py         # Feedback collection (250+ lines)
├── reinforcement_learning.py      # RL implementation (400+ lines)
├── memory_system.py               # Memory management (450+ lines)
├── performance_monitor.py         # Performance tracking (400+ lines)
└── agentic_pipeline.py            # Main orchestration (550+ lines)

tests/
└── test_agents.py                 # Comprehensive tests (900+ lines)

scripts/
├── demo_agentic.py                # Full demonstration (700+ lines)
└── verify_agentic_setup.py        # Setup verification (150+ lines)

docs/
└── AGENTIC_SYSTEM.md              # This file
```

**Total Implementation: 6,000+ lines of production code**

## Key Features

### 1. Autonomous Operation
- **Self-Planning**: Automatic query decomposition and strategy selection
- **Self-Execution**: Autonomous action execution with error handling
- **Self-Evaluation**: Automated quality assessment
- **Self-Improvement**: Learning from outcomes without human intervention

### 2. Multi-Agent Collaboration
- **Specialized Roles**: Each agent has specific expertise
- **Message Passing**: Structured communication protocol with priorities
- **Coordination**: Centralized orchestration with conflict resolution
- **Consensus Building**: Agreement mechanisms for decisions

### 3. Reinforcement Learning
- **Q-Learning**: State-action value learning for strategy selection
- **Multi-Armed Bandits**: Exploration-exploitation balance
- **Reward Shaping**: Multi-objective optimization (quality, speed, cost)
- **Persistent Learning**: Q-table storage and restoration

### 4. Memory Systems
- **Short-Term Memory**: Current session context (capacity-limited)
- **Long-Term Memory**: Persistent important information
- **Episodic Memory**: Complete interaction records
- **Consolidation**: Automatic memory management

### 5. Quality Assessment
- **Relevance Scoring**: Query-result alignment
- **Completeness Checking**: Information sufficiency
- **Consistency Validation**: Contradiction detection
- **Hallucination Detection**: Source verification

### 6. Performance Monitoring
- **Real-Time Metrics**: Latency, throughput, success rates
- **Trend Analysis**: Performance over time
- **Anomaly Detection**: Automatic outlier identification
- **Optimization Recommendations**: Actionable improvements

## Architecture Highlights

### Pipeline Flow

```
1. Query Reception
   └─→ Memory Recall (relevant context)

2. Planning Phase
   ├─→ Complexity Analysis
   ├─→ Query Decomposition (if needed)
   ├─→ Strategy Selection (RL-based)
   └─→ Execution Plan Generation

3. Execution Phase
   ├─→ Parallel/Sequential Step Execution
   ├─→ Progress Monitoring
   ├─→ Error Handling & Retry
   └─→ Result Collection

4. Evaluation Phase
   ├─→ Quality Scoring (4 dimensions)
   ├─→ Feedback Generation
   └─→ Improvement Suggestions

5. Learning Phase (if enabled)
   ├─→ Pattern Recognition
   ├─→ RL Update (Q-values)
   ├─→ Strategy Optimization
   └─→ Knowledge Persistence

6. Response Generation
   └─→ Answer Synthesis

7. Memory Update
   ├─→ Episodic Storage
   ├─→ Important Memory Promotion
   └─→ Consolidation
```

### Operating Modes

**FAST Mode**
- Speed: 700-1500ms
- Iterations: 1
- Strategy: Simple
- Use Case: Quick answers

**STANDARD Mode** (Default)
- Speed: 1000-2500ms
- Iterations: 1-2
- Strategy: Adaptive
- Use Case: Balanced performance

**DEEP Mode**
- Speed: 2000-5000ms
- Iterations: 2-3
- Strategy: Comprehensive
- Use Case: Complex queries

**LEARNING Mode**
- Speed: Variable
- Iterations: Flexible
- Strategy: Exploratory
- Use Case: System training

## Technical Implementation

### Design Patterns

1. **Abstract Base Class**: All agents inherit from `BaseAgent`
2. **Strategy Pattern**: Pluggable retrieval strategies
3. **Observer Pattern**: Performance monitoring and alerting
4. **Command Pattern**: Action execution with history
5. **State Pattern**: Agent state management
6. **Decorator Pattern**: Action wrapping for retry logic

### Concurrency

- **AsyncIO**: Asynchronous agent operations
- **Parallel Execution**: Concurrent plan steps
- **Message Queues**: Non-blocking communication
- **Lock-Free**: Agent coordination without deadlocks

### Persistence

- **JSON Storage**: Q-tables, patterns, memories
- **Incremental Saves**: Periodic checkpointing
- **Automatic Loading**: Restore on initialization
- **Migration Support**: Version compatibility

### Error Handling

- **Retry Logic**: Exponential backoff for failures
- **Graceful Degradation**: Fallback strategies
- **Error Propagation**: Structured error information
- **Recovery Mechanisms**: Automatic failure recovery

## Usage Examples

### Basic Usage

```python
from src.agents import AgenticPipeline, AgenticMode

# Initialize
pipeline = AgenticPipeline(mode=AgenticMode.STANDARD)

# Process query
result = await pipeline.process_query(
    "What is machine learning?",
    max_iterations=2,
    min_quality_threshold=0.7
)

print(f"Quality: {result.assessment.overall_score:.2f}")
print(f"Answer: {result.answer}")
```

### With External Components

```python
from src.retrieval.advanced_pipeline import AdvancedRetrievalPipeline
from src.knowledge_graph.graph_queries import GraphQueries

# Initialize with existing RAG components
pipeline = AgenticPipeline(
    retrieval_pipeline=AdvancedRetrievalPipeline(...),
    graph_queries=GraphQueries(...),
    mode=AgenticMode.DEEP,
    enable_learning=True
)
```

### Iterative Improvement

```python
# High quality threshold triggers improvements
result = await pipeline.process_query(
    "Complex query requiring deep analysis...",
    max_iterations=5,
    min_quality_threshold=0.85
)

print(f"Iterations: {result.iteration}")
print(f"Improved: {result.improved}")
```

## Testing

### Test Coverage

- **Unit Tests**: Individual agent functionality (40+ tests)
- **Integration Tests**: Multi-agent workflows (15+ tests)
- **Performance Tests**: Benchmarks and throughput (10+ tests)
- **End-to-End Tests**: Complete pipeline scenarios (5+ tests)

### Running Tests

```bash
# All tests
pytest tests/test_agents.py -v

# Specific category
pytest tests/test_agents.py::TestPlanningAgent -v

# With coverage
pytest tests/test_agents.py --cov=src/agents --cov-report=html

# Benchmarks only
pytest tests/test_agents.py -m benchmark
```

## Demonstrations

The demo script (`scripts/demo_agentic.py`) includes 8 comprehensive demonstrations:

1. **Basic Query Processing**: Standard query handling
2. **Mode Comparison**: FAST vs STANDARD vs DEEP
3. **Iterative Improvement**: Quality-driven refinement
4. **Learning Progression**: Improvement over queries
5. **Complex Query Handling**: Multi-part queries
6. **Memory and Context**: Contextual awareness
7. **Performance Monitoring**: Metrics and trends
8. **Statistics and Insights**: System analytics

Run with:
```bash
python scripts/demo_agentic.py
```

## Performance Characteristics

### Typical Metrics

| Metric | Value | Notes |
|--------|-------|-------|
| Planning Time | 50-200ms | Query complexity dependent |
| Execution Time | 500-2000ms | Strategy dependent |
| Evaluation Time | 100-300ms | Result count dependent |
| Learning Time | 50-150ms | Pattern complexity dependent |
| **Total Time** | **700-2650ms** | Mode dependent |

### Scalability

- **Concurrent Queries**: Limited by resources
- **Agent Count**: Scales linearly
- **Memory Usage**: ~100MB baseline + query data
- **Storage**: ~10MB per 1000 queries (learned data)

### Optimization Opportunities

1. **Caching**: Cache frequent queries (30-50% speedup)
2. **Batching**: Process similar queries together
3. **Pruning**: Aggressive Q-table pruning
4. **Parallelization**: More concurrent execution
5. **Hardware**: GPU for embeddings, faster storage

## Integration with Existing System

The agentic system seamlessly integrates with all existing DocTags RAG components:

- ✓ **Dual Indexing**: Uses Qdrant and Neo4j
- ✓ **Document Processing**: Leverages DocTags pipeline
- ✓ **Knowledge Graph**: Integrates graph queries
- ✓ **RAPTOR**: Uses hierarchical summaries
- ✓ **Community Detection**: Leverages communities
- ✓ **Advanced Retrieval**: Full pipeline integration

## Production Readiness

### ✓ Code Quality
- Type hints throughout
- Comprehensive docstrings
- Consistent formatting
- Error handling
- Logging integration

### ✓ Testing
- 70+ unit tests
- Integration tests
- Performance benchmarks
- Edge case coverage

### ✓ Documentation
- README with examples
- API documentation
- Architecture diagrams
- Troubleshooting guide

### ✓ Monitoring
- Real-time metrics
- Alert generation
- Performance tracking
- Anomaly detection

### ✓ Persistence
- Automatic saving
- State restoration
- Migration support
- Backup mechanisms

## Future Enhancements

### Phase 2 Potential Features

1. **Advanced RL**
   - Policy gradient methods
   - Actor-critic architectures
   - Meta-learning

2. **Multi-Modal**
   - Image understanding
   - Audio processing
   - Video analysis

3. **Distributed Agents**
   - Cross-machine coordination
   - Load balancing
   - Fault tolerance

4. **Explainability**
   - Decision tree visualization
   - Counterfactual explanations
   - Attribution analysis

5. **Human-in-Loop**
   - Interactive refinement
   - Feedback incorporation
   - Manual overrides

6. **Advanced Memory**
   - Semantic memory search
   - Memory consolidation strategies
   - Forgetting mechanisms

## Conclusion

The agentic feedback loop system is **fully implemented and production-ready**. It provides:

- ✓ **Autonomous operation** with no human intervention needed
- ✓ **Multi-agent coordination** for complex query handling
- ✓ **Continuous learning** through reinforcement learning
- ✓ **Quality assurance** with multi-dimensional assessment
- ✓ **Performance monitoring** with real-time metrics
- ✓ **Memory systems** for contextual awareness
- ✓ **Comprehensive testing** with 70+ tests
- ✓ **Full documentation** with examples and guides

The system successfully combines all previous components (dual indexing, knowledge graphs, RAPTOR, community detection) into a truly agentic, self-improving RAG system.

## Quick Start

1. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Verify setup**:
   ```bash
   python scripts/verify_agentic_setup.py
   ```

3. **Run tests**:
   ```bash
   pytest tests/test_agents.py -v
   ```

4. **Run demo**:
   ```bash
   python scripts/demo_agentic.py
   ```

5. **Use in your code**:
   ```python
   from src.agents import AgenticPipeline, AgenticMode

   pipeline = AgenticPipeline(mode=AgenticMode.STANDARD)
   result = await pipeline.process_query("Your query here")
   ```

## Support

For questions or issues:
- See `src/agents/README.md` for detailed documentation
- Run `python scripts/verify_agentic_setup.py` for diagnostics
- Check test suite for usage examples
- Review demo script for comprehensive scenarios

---

**Implementation Complete**: January 2025
**Total Lines of Code**: 6,000+
**Test Coverage**: Comprehensive
**Documentation**: Complete
**Status**: Production Ready ✓
